Hello and welcome to the Harvest Baptist Church sermon podcast.
We are honored that you would click on this and listen to God's word preached by one of our elders.
At the same time, we strongly affirm the biblical mandate for Christians to be faithfully active and in-person part of their local church.
This sermon cannot and will not replace what a local church can provide to the life of a Christian.
That being said,
We hope that this sermon challenges and encourages you in your faith and that it builds upon the faithful ministry of your local church.
We hope that you enjoy.
God bless.
Take your Bible with me to Exodus chapter 11.
Exodus chapter 11.
Nice for us to get a little practice with the hymnal this morning.
So we'll have one very soon.
God willing.
Excited by that.
Brother Jeff, thank you for filling in for us the last minute.
Sure do appreciate that.
So our series we've entitled slavery to Sabbath and something to interesting to note is of course these people, God's people, the Israelites are slaves in Egypt and he's bringing them out, but he's not just redeeming them.
He's redeeming them to worship him, right?
And so that's what we've been getting at.
And it's going to be interesting to note next week that he will come while they are worshiping him.
he will visit his people in judgment and in salvation and deliverance while they are celebrating the first Passover.
And really and truly, if you wanna understand communion, you really have to understand the Passover.
So he is taking them from slavery to Sabbath.
Now we are out of the three cycles.
Now there are three cycles of plagues or non-plagues so far, and we talked about the first cycle and the first plague in every cycle.
Moses met Pharaoh at the river at the Nile.
The second one in each cycle he went to his throne and he talked to him there.
And then the third one, the third plague of each cycle was unannounced.
And so they had this cycle that had this pattern, but this plague, the 10th plague is a plague all into itself.
And as we're going to see this morning, chapter 11 is brief, but it is thick and it is brief, but it is introduction to really the only plague, the last plague.
which is the death of the firstborn son.
Now, what they wanna get at this morning is personal autonomy.
Personal autonomy in our day has become a deadly idol.
Personal autonomy, that is personal freedom.
No doubt in our day and time, there is a war of worldviews.
We'd all agree on that in our day and time.
How we see the world, how we view it between in our culture, the Christian worldview and the culture's worldview.
Now, we're talking about personal autonomy in these worldviews.
And now Christians, we need to say everyone to some degree believes in personal autonomy, personal freedom.
For instance, the idea that people, citizens should enter into a contract with the government for them to be governed.
In other words, we should have a vote.
That is a Christian, that is part of the Christian worldview as part of being a part of Christian theology for centuries.
Christians are the one who invented the vote, you might say.
And have foundation for it personal property consent to be governed personal responsibility All right operational autonomy that is where you work what possession how many kids you want all of that Come in a Christian worldview you have freedom and you have personal autonomy over that however the Christian worldview however Proclaims that there is a limit to personal autonomy
We do not have in the Christian worldview, the personal autonomy or the freedom to break God's law, right?
That is not, that is the limit.
We don't have the ability to change God's law.
We are not free enough to reject God's law or to reject his existence.
We believe in autonomy, personal autonomy, but the Christian worldview believes that it has limits to it.
Now, however, if you throw out the Christian view of personal autonomy, if you throw that out,
what you will find in a culture such as ours is that personal autonomy becomes the supreme idea and it becomes the idol that demands worship.
For instance, let me give you an example.
The New York Times this week, I think it was on Wednesday published an article, this, this is the New York Times this week.
Should you be able to ask a doctor to help you die?
That's the time.
should you be able to ask a doctor to help you die?
Of course, this is talking about the realm of euthanasia, the topic of euthanasia.
This article is written by Stephanie Nolan.
And she cited, for instances, all over Europe, Switzerland, South America, but the leading nation in this front, of course, is Canada.
And she called euthanasia, she called it this, medical aid in dying.
Medical aid in dying.
She said that euthanasia, medical aid and dying is the last frontier in the fight for personal autonomy.
There it is.
So if you're going to have personal autonomy, right?
The argument from our culture is the supreme ethic is personal autonomy.
It is freedom.
So therefore you should be able to choose when you die and how you die.
This is also the idea behind the transgender movement.
You cannot tell me who I am.
biologically, I get to determine who I am, right?
So personal autonomy demands total worship if you do not limit it in a Christian worldview.
And that's what we're seeing take place in our own culture around us.
And no doubt, we live in a day where insanity is becoming public policy.
And how are we to live in such a day?
Francis Schaefer, how then ought we to live?
And this time in this place, what answers does the Christian worldview have to unlimited
personal freedom or personal autonomy.
Well, one thing for certain, we could just say in natural fact of life, whether you want to take the Bible's fact or not, nobody has true all in personal autonomy simply because think of this.
You know one, not one person has ever got to choose where they were born or when they were born.
You might say, well, I can choose my gender.
I can choose when I die.
Yeah.
Well,
That may be up for debate in your worldview, but there are facts about life that you, there's no way anyone has personal autonomy in the unlimited sense.
Now, to the Christian worldview, what we're going to look at this morning, chapter 11 Christians, we need to be able to stand with boldness and say that a personal autonomy is limited because of God's sovereign rule over this world.
Okay.
We need to be able to stand firm on God's sovereign rule, because what we're going to see and what we see taking place every day.
If we don't take that stand, personal autonomy will become the supreme idol and demand worship.
So let's look, I want to show you four things in chapter 11, what we learned about the sovereignty of God and his sovereign will.
If you will stand with me as we read chapter 11 in Exodus.
The Lord said to Moses,
Yet one plague more I will bring upon Pharaoh and upon Egypt.
Afterward, he will let you go from here.
When he lets you go, he will drive you away completely in the Hebrew.
It's like he will drive you away, drive you away.
It's repeated.
Verse two, speak now in the hearing of the people that they ask every man of his neighbor and every woman of her neighbor for silver and gold jewelry.
The Lord gave the people favor in the side of the Egyptians.
Moreover, the man Moses was great in the land of Egypt in the side of Pharaoh's servants and in the side of his people.
Really almost verses three and four or verse three is like a parenthetical in the midst of this.
We're going to see what exactly is going on in this context here in a second.
Verse four.
So Moses said, thus says the Lord about midnight, I will go out in the midst of Egypt.
God saying I will go out.
Verse five.
And every firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die.
From the firstborn of Pharaoh who sits on his throne, even to the firstborn of the slave girl who is behind the hand meal, all the firstborn of the cattle.
There shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt, such as there has never been, nor ever will be again.
But not a dog shall growl against any of the people of Israel, either man or beast, that you may know the Lord makes a distinction between Egypt and Israel.
We see that distinction that we talked about last week again.
Verse eight, and all your servants shall come down to me and bow down to me saying, get out.
You and all the people who follow you.
And after that, I will go out and he went out from Pharaoh in hot anger.
Why did Moses leave in anger?
First nine, then the Lord said to Moses, Pharaoh will not listen to you.
That my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt.
That's why.
First 10, Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh and the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart.
He did not let the people of Israel go out of the land.
Father, thank you for the giving and the reading of your word.
Father, may your word be honored.
May your message be preached.
May your people have ears to hear and hands to obey.
We ask it in Christ's name and all God's people said, Amen.
Now, four things I want to show you in this text about the sovereignty of God.
And the first thing is this, God is sovereign over Pharaoh's heart.
God is sovereign over Pharaoh and he's sovereign over Pharaoh's heart.
Of course, we've read Romans chapter nine to that effect and Paul's perspective on that.
But throughout the plagues, it's been as if it's Pharaoh versus Moses almost, but it's really more than that.
Moses is a spokesman for God.
So it's been like Yahweh versus
Pharaoh, and Pharaoh is a representation of many of the gods in Egypt to the people in Egypt.
That's the way I saw them.
So it's really gods versus gods, if you will, okay?
Throne versus throne, this battle going on.
And what's interesting in this context is there is no break between chapter 10 and chapter 11.
I don't know if you know this, but the chapters in the Bible were not put in there when the Bible was originally written.
Um, the joke is, uh, they were added about in the 1500s.
Um, and the joke is why a man was riding through the country somewhere on a camel.
Every time he hit a bump, he seemed to his finger go down.
They made a new chapter.
Now that's not true, but that's a joke.
But it's sometimes they're not in the greatest of places.
Um, but I say that to say, um, in chapter 10, we leave, we end chapter 10 where Moses is in front of Pharaoh and Pharaoh says, if I ever see you again, I will kill you.
I don't want to see your face again, but he never leaves.
And in chapter 11, Moses is still in the presence of Pharaoh.
He still taught.
He never leaves.
He doesn't come back.
He's there the whole time in chapter 11.
I say that to say this in Pharaoh's throne room before Pharaoh, it would have been a drama to be there to see it.
No doubt everyone there who assembled at the throne of Pharaoh would have been there to worship him, pay homage.
It'd been a huge drama.
And if we'd have got to ever see it or see how it would have went down, we would have saw that Pharaoh was honored and worshiped and everybody's doing that.
Well, imagine that going down and Moses is before Pharaoh.
One thing you never do in front of a monarch and the ancient Near East Ever, you would never turn your back to them.
That's just, you would never do that.
Moses is in front of Pharaoh and he goes, hey, wait a minute, I got a phone call.
but God's speaking to me.
Hold up, Pharaoh, you go out and calm down.
Wait just a minute.
What did you hate?
You don't, all right.
So God's talking.
There's a throne.
There's a throne war going on here.
And the kingdom of God is more important than the kingdom of Egypt than Pharaoh's rule.
God rules over that.
And so Moses here with great disrespect to Pharaoh says, wait, God's, God's speaking to me here.
Oh wait, here's what's about to happen.
Oh, Pharaoh, you were talking be quiet for a minute.
God spoke.
the disrespect that would happen here.
And what we see here in Pharaoh in the first verse, and this is bookends in chapter 11.
And we go down to verse 10.
All these wonders before, what do you say there in verse 10?
I said chapter 10, excuse me, verse 10, chapter 11.
These, these wonders were before Pharaoh, they're in front of him there.
And the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart.
Now, if we're going to understand that, we've talked briefly about that in other sermons, but I want to say two things about
the sovereignty of God hardened in his heart for us to understand it.
The first thing we need to understand is to understand God hardened is that Pharaoh is a picture.
He's a symbol.
He's symbolic of every human heart, every sinner by nature.
Pharaoh is.
Tozer in the holiness of God.
I think we have some copies of that.
If you're interested, it's a short book.
I want to tell you, I don't know a book that's thicker and just a great read about the attributes of God, but he talks in that book and I believe chapter two about
What is sin?
And, um, and Tozer says this sin in his very essence is a moral being created by God, created to worship God before his throne.
Yet he decides to sit on his own throne and from that elevated position, denies God's rightful place in his very essence.
He says man's man in sin by nature makes himself supreme in the little kingdom of man's soul.
In other words, God has created every person, every creature, every person, right?
And in every heart, there is a throne.
There is a throne in every heart.
And God, that is his rightful place because he created man.
And yet the very essence of sin is that in our hearts, we want to dethrone God and we want to be Lord of our own lives.
And that was the temptation in the garden, of course.
Now, you know, you get to a point like this and you get to Pharaoh.
And how is he a picture here?
And some people would object and they ask this question, is it right for us to expect people who are not Christians?
Is it right for us to expect unbelievers to obey God's law?
You know, cause sometimes you see the news and sometimes there's always a Christian out there that will say something like this.
Well, that's just unbelievers doing what unbelievers do and you can't expect anything more.
Now there might be some truth to that.
But are we as Christians to expect non-believers to obey God's law?
Yes, we should have such a passion for the glory of God that we expect all men and women and children to obey God's law.
Because here's the deal.
God's law does not demand agreement on man's part.
Say that again.
God's law does not require that His creatures, the Creator's law, does not
you know, does not require the creatures to ascent to obey.
They don't have to agree to it.
For instance, if you're in another country and you get caught speeding, right in that country and you say, Hey, look, I don't speak the language.
I didn't know the speed limit.
Sorry.
Right.
Maybe they can share with you the ticket he got in Scotland.
Right?
You can talk about ignorance, but you know, it is, was it a ticket?
No, when the ticket was a parking ticket, it was a ticket.
Okay.
Yeah, you didn't get to get out of it because you weren't from there, right?
I mean, it's just, it's just, sorry to throw Nate under the bus.
Somebody's got to go.
But right.
I mean, you'd have to deal with the speed limit, the speed limit, whether you agree to it or not.
And where God's law is for all his creatures.
He created everyone.
He created Pharaoh and the,
The throne in Pharaoh's heart is God.
Yahweh is Lord over Pharaoh.
But Pharaoh, the very picture of sin is nobody, you can look at the decision.
You see, Pharaoh may have sacrificed for his people in Egypt, may have provided, may have protected him.
But everything that Pharaoh did was sinful because he was on the throne of his heart.
You see, we might look at somebody and say, you know, that's a good father.
That father cares for his family.
He does all the thing a man is called to do.
But what we have to understand from a theological perspective that everything he does as a father if he's not a Christian is wicked.
Even his righteous deeds are
are filthy rags before the Lord, because everything he does is tainted with sin.
He is totally depraved.
Everything he touches is depraved because he is on the throne of his own heart.
And that throne was created for God and God alone.
Pharaoh doesn't want to get off his throne.
Right?
And you look at Pharaoh and you go, why don't this guy repent?
I mean, for crying out loud, I mean, you would think he's going to turn, but he doesn't.
That's the very essence of sin in your life and my life and every unbeliever is we don't want to get on.
We don't want to be dethroned.
So we have to understand that to understand God's hardening of his heart.
All because God is not when God hardened Pharaoh's heart, he's not hypnotizing it.
He's not.
Hey, look over here and I'm going to do this.
Um, Pharaoh's not being humble.
He's not saying, Hey, I want to repent Yahweh.
I want to do what you say.
And God saying, Nope, I'm going to harden your heart.
He's not doing that.
Um, he, you know, sometimes I play, we play fight with Watson, you know, and I grab his hand and I hit him with it and make him hit himself.
You know, that's mean, right?
That's not nice.
Um, but God's not doing that to Pharaoh.
He's not, he's Pharaoh's not doing wickedness against his own will.
Pharaoh wants to do Pharaoh.
It's his heart.
He wants to do wicked.
He wants to rebel against God.
That's already his desire and God is God.
God does hard in a heart that is already rotten.
All right.
He's not hypnotizing him.
He's not in opposition to a humble.
He's not a, um, some people say, well, this means that we're just robots or puppets or Pharaoh's just a puppet or a robot.
No, this is what Pharaoh wanted to do.
Pharaoh wanted to rebel against God.
He wanted not to obey God.
This is his heart.
This is what he won.
You know, you think about a puppet, the puppet masters pulling the strings.
That's not Pharaoh.
This is what Pharaoh wanted to do.
This is his wicked heart.
This is his desire.
And God is simply giving him over to those desires.
So if one, he's a picture of every sinner in Adam.
Secondly, this is God hardening Pharaoh's heart.
Here's what we have to come to grips with is a picture of God's glory.
It's a picture of God's glory.
We can get wrapped up in the argument here over this, but over, over God, you know, is this fair unfair in Romans nine, right?
We can do that, but we need to ask the question.
Why?
Now let me do some homework for me.
I'll give you, you just test it and see if what I say is correct.
During the plagues, 19 times, 19 times we are told that Pharaoh's heart is hardened, 19 times.
Okay.
Six of those times just generally said Pharaoh's heart is hardened, six times.
Three times it says that Pharaoh hardened his own heart.
Okay.
So that's nine out of the, the other 10 times it is clear.
The Bible says God hardened his heart.
Hmm.
Shouldn't we start to ask the question, why?
Why did Moses say, why did Moses record 10 times that God hardened his heart?
Why?
Maybe it's not to teach us something about Pharaoh, but in fact, it's to teach us something about God.
You see, when you come to this really, when you come to this issue, you really have two options.
Two options to look at this.
You could say, well, personal autonomy is supreme, okay?
And, you know, man is totally free
the libertarian view of free will, and humanity gets to create, make choices against the will of God.
Now, I say that I need to qualify that, make distinctions.
In the will of God, we make two distinctions.
There's the decreed will of God, that is God's plans for history, and there's the perceptive.
will of God.
That is his precepts, his commands, the 10 commandments, the law of God.
We know that man has a will to break God's commandments.
We call that sin, we call that transgression.
But what we're talking about here is can man have the, does man and women and children, do we have the freedom to break God's decreed will, God's plans for the future?
The libertarian view says, yes, we can make decisions and make, you know, Pharaoh made a decision that changed God's plan.
That's not what God, so God has to scramble and go to, in other words, God's reactive to all of, to man's decisions.
He just reacts, all right?
And therefore, man is totally free.
And if you say that, you could say, well, that's where evil comes from, you know?
man made the decision.
It's man's fault.
That's where suffering and plague, it all comes from this great supreme ethic of free will.
That is the supreme ethic, okay?
So you could say that.
However, the other option is to say what the scripture says in Ephesians 111 that he works, God works all things according to the counsel of his will.
And he is, whatever God ordains comes to pass.
Everything that God ordains comes to pass.
So how do you know what God's decreed will is?
It's what happens in, in God is center of the world and his will cannot be changed.
His decreed will is what will come to pass.
Well, so, and if we look at that, and if we say that's what the Bible teaches, and that's what, that's what Moses is trying to tell us here, that God was sovereign over the hardening of Pharaoh's heart.
If that's yes and amen, if that's true, then why?
That's what pastor Chris and why, why was that?
And we'll look at verse here.
We just, let's just read it in verse nine, verse nine, chapter 11.
Then the Lord said to Moses, Pharoah will not listen to you.
That my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt.
Why am I going to harden his heart?
So I can do what, how many plagues did God have to do to destroy Egypt?
One, really not even a plague.
He could have just blinked his eye right.
He could have wished it to happen.
God didn't need to bring plagues, but why did God conquer the Egyptian nation with an 83 year old man and a staff and a stick?
And why did he send 10 plagues to show his glory, to show his jealousy?
God is a jealous God.
You have my people and I'm jealous for my people.
You've been, you've been persecuting my people and I'm going to have revenge and I'm going to bring justice for my people.
I'm a God who judges, but I'm also a God of mercy.
We're going to learn.
There are a bunch of Egyptians that go out with the Israelites where we're going to see a lot of the Egyptians here.
As we read said, you know what?
That guy, Moses is favorable.
You know what?
Every time he says something from Yahweh, it happens.
I'm, I'm,
I'm going to follow that God.
Okay.
These gods have been defeated.
I see that I'm right.
There's a lot of those that take place God.
And this is to glorify God chapter 10 verse one and two we saw last week God hardened Pharaoh's heart.
He told Moses so that you can tell your children and your grandchildren what happened.
Hey question.
How many people around the world today are studying about the God, Marduk from Egypt and how great he is.
You know what?
How many is probably less than two.
How many people are worshiping the God Yahweh who rescued his people from Egypt?
You see the mummy movies and guess what they're about?
They're not about the gods of Egypt.
They're about mummies.
Even the gods aren't even hardly brought up.
Why?
Because Yahweh defeated them.
This is about his glory.
This is about his power, his mind.
And he, he ordains everything in this world to glorify himself.
Maybe God hardened Pharaoh's heart so that we would see that here today and we would find true joy and true peace in the glory of God and in his sovereignty.
So the first thing we see God is sovereign over the Pharaoh's heart.
Next thing I think we see here pretty evident is God is sovereign over the future.
God is sovereign over the future.
And versus,
Let's start in verse four, four through seven.
Moses said, this is what the Lord says.
He says, okay, Pharaoh, hey, calm down real quick.
I got to talk to you.
About midnight, let's just see how many wheels.
I will go throughout Egypt.
Every firstborn son of Egypt will die.
The firstborn son of Pharaoh who sits on the throne to the firstborn son of the female slave who is at the handmill, the firstborn of the cattle as well.
There will be loud welling throughout Egypt, worse than there's ever been, or ever will be again.
But among the Israelites, not a dog will bark at any person or animal.
Then you will know that the Lord makes a distinction between Egypt and Israel.
Hey, look, let me highly encourage you not to watch the Daystar Network.
Just let me be a help to you.
Now, if you want comical relief and you wanna laugh at something, go for it.
But if you're looking for spiritual nourishment, don't look on Daystar, okay?
However, if you do, I'll just make a prophecy right here now, okay, on the Lord's Day.
If you go on January 1 on Daystar or the day before December 3rd, you're gonna have a lot of prophets and prophetess and pink hair.
And they're gonna say things like,
This new year is gonna bring a lot of trials, but there's gonna be a lot of prosperity.
There's gonna be an economic downturn, but it's also gonna be an increase economically.
You're gonna have a health issue, but God's gonna rescue you from it.
It's gonna be so vague.
What does God say?
This is what's gonna happen tonight, at midnight.
There will not be a dull growl at an Israelite.
All right.
The death angel is going to come.
I'm going to come and visit.
The firstborn will die if the blood of the lambs is on the doorpost.
This will happen.
There will be a welling.
All right.
Like never heard before.
It's very precise.
It's not vague.
It's very specific.
And plague after plague, Moses says, hey, God said this is happening tomorrow.
And guess what?
It happened tomorrow.
God is teaching Egypt, of course, who Yahweh is, but God is teaching Israel something.
God is teaching Israel that Yahweh is not a God who just respond.
He's not a God who you just trust when things start happening to you.
When you're going through a hard time, we say crazy things as Christians sometimes.
When you're going through a hard time, remember God hasn't went anywhere.
We say things like God
God's still there.
He's still waiting for you.
That's not what Moses is teaching Israelites here.
This is not a God to just, you should trust him when you go through hard times, but here's what he's teaching him.
You need to trust Yahweh that he's not the, he's not the God who, he's the one that makes things happen.
He's the God that brought the plagues.
He's the God who brings disasters.
He's the God who brings everything that comes.
What did Job say?
Blessed be the Lord who gives and takes away.
This is not a God who just fights back.
This isn't a God who's just always there who responds.
This is the God who is the ultimate cause of all things.
Now we do rightly make distinctions that there are things that God allows.
For instance, Roman one part of God's judgment to a culture that goes away from him.
He allows them to, um, he gives them over to what they want.
He just, he allows that to happen.
Um, there, there are direct causes of things.
God directly sends these plagues.
Sometimes God allows things to happen.
There are direct and indirect causes, but here's what he is teaching the Israelites about Yahweh.
He is the ultimate cause.
If he allowed something to happen, it's part of his plan.
We say that God has no body parts or passions.
That's what the old theologians used to say.
God has no body, no parts and no passions.
What does it mean that God has no passions?
It doesn't mean that he doesn't have emotions that he loves and hates.
That's all true.
That's not what they meant by that.
It meant suffering.
God does not suffer.
In other words, you cannot change God's decreed will.
Nobody can change that.
Because he is God.
Does he work in a mysterious way?
Absolutely.
But everything.
happens according to his will.
All right, that's why Joseph could say in Genesis 50, verse 20, though he had been sold by his brothers into slavery, though he had been in Potiphar's house falsely accused, though the jailer had betrayed him, right?
And then he rose over in Egypt second in command to only Pharaoh.
That's why he could say to his brothers, what you intended for evil, God intended for good.
God didn't react to what you did.
It was God's plan the whole time, right?
Acts chapter two, verse 23,
Peter stands up for the council, the Sanhedrin.
He goes, you crucified the Lord of glory.
You crucified the son of God, but he was handed over to your hands according to the four knowledge of God.
It was God's four ordained plan.
Yes, you did it, but it was God's plan.
See, God works.
God is sovereign over the future.
And friends, let me just, all the modern psychology will hear about your pain and your suffering.
This is what you need to hear.
This is what we need to be able at the right time with the right tone, share with people, but first we need to believe it in our own heart.
When you look at the hurt and trials and sufferings of your own life,
You don't want to buy into modern Christianity that will tell you, you know, that happened because of somebody's choice.
That had nothing to do with God.
Soon as you believe that the suffering and hurt in your life had nothing to do of God, friend, you have no hope in it, right?
You have no hope.
The fact that the pain was for no reason.
And once you go with that, what you end up with is a God who is no control, a God who's not sovereign, and a God you can have no hope in and no assurance in.
But the Bible says, Job could say after losing 10 kids, blessed be God who gives and takes away.
If you can look at your hurt and say, that's part, behind a frowning providence is a smiling face, right?
That everything that came into my life, hard, tough, difficult,
sleepless nights.
That was God's plan and he is a good father.
We can trust him in that and we can look at our past and trust and we can look in our future because if we can't trust him for what's happened to us in the past, we surely cannot be assured of anything in the future because the God who didn't control the past can't control the future.
But the God of the Bible is sovereign over time.
And not only that, what does the future promise us?
Well, this word tells us what's coming.
This is an introduction to the final play.
What does he say?
In verse four, I will come.
I am coming at midnight.
Who's coming at midnight?
I think I've told you before I was at the playing in a golf tournament in Commerce at Double Oaks and it was a Shriners tournament and never forget this.
First year I played in this tournament and they were my friend Matt Waters and Renee's cousin and
God stands up and goes, we need to pray for brother so-and-so.
The death angel visited him last night.
And I remember thinking, the death angel, that'll sound good.
Moses says who's coming in midnight?
God's coming.
What's coming in the future?
Judgment is coming in the future.
It's interesting to note here that in verse eight, look at verse eight with me.
Moses tells Pharaoh this.
He says, all of your servants shall come down to me and bow down to me saying, get out.
You and all the people who follow you.
We've already heard of people in Pharaoh's council who trust Moses and hear what Moses is saying.
Everyone is starting to believe Moses and follow Moses's word and believe what he says is going to happen is going to happen.
And he tells Pharaoh, all of your people are going to come to me and ask me to leave to do what God wants you to do.
Pharaoh is the last one.
Pharaoh is the last one in Egypt who was going to stand his ground with a heart and heart and say, no.
See, what is God doing?
Every person that stands up before the rule of God and the sovereignty of God will face judgment.
Calvin said of this passage that even as obstinate as Pharaoh was, and Pharaoh has now been isolated in verse eight, he's the last one.
No matter how obstinate Pharaoh's heart was to God, it had come time for him to bow the knee.
It had come time for him to bow the knee and he would.
He would, the Bible tells us every knee will bow, every tongue will confess that Christ is Lord Philippians two, every tongue in heaven on earth below and beneath every knee will bow with that Christ is Lord and judgment day is coming.
The Bible says it's appointed for man to die and then the judgment act 17.
Paul said God has appointed a day whereby the one who he resurrected from the dead will judge the living and the dead.
This is a word of judgment.
Now.
popular news this week in the Christian world, Kurt Cameron came out in a interview, interviewing someone who believed in an annihilation and pretty much agreeing with that annihilation, meaning that for the wicked, what happens to those, they simply are annihilated, vaporized, no longer exist.
And they went over and as I listened to this interview, the interview, he said that there's nowhere in the Bible where the wicked live forever.
Well friend, that's just not true.
We could look at 10 verses right now to find that.
Jesus said it's a place where the worm never dies.
Luke 15, it's not a parable, the rich man of Lazarus.
Jesus tells it, he never says it's a parable.
He tells it as a true story, not fiction, but fact that there is a fixed between heaven and hell.
And the man there in hell in Hades asked for water to squinch his thirst.
I think the Bible's clear.
Hell is a place of eternal conscious
Punishment for the wicked now friend.
That's an uncomfortable message for the world today and be real honest That's an uncomfortable message for the church today, but I think Jesus will be very clear to say I didn't come to make you comfortable come to tell the truth Jesus told the truth Jesus talked more about hell than anybody else in the Bible and he's very clear on this point that hell is a place of eternal conscious punishment
I think today, the American church, we tend to think somehow that if we can get enough of us together to deny judgment, to deny the doctrine of hell, then it just won't be so.
But friend, we can, the American church, every church in the world can deny hell.
Every Christian can deny that it's true.
But friend, it is still true because God word proclaims it.
It is true.
Let God be true and every man a liar.
But God is sovereign over the future.
and he predicts a future judgment.
He's given us his word.
The last thing I want us to point to today, the fourth thing, God is sovereign over the future, sovereign over judgment, sovereign over Pharaoh's heart.
He is sovereign over the salvation of his people.
Now, all through chapter 11 points to God saving his people, the distinction that's made in verse seven, verse eight, the favor, excuse me, that Moses will receive in the
Noah in the Ark, the Bible says that Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord.
That word favor in Hebrew really is what we would translate grace.
He found grace.
Moses is giving grace.
He says that there will be a cry.
Verse six, there shall be a great cry throughout the land of Egypt, such as there has never been or ever will be again.
In chapter two of Exodus, God's people cry out to Yahweh.
Yahweh hears their cry.
Chapter five, the Israelites cry out to Pharaoh.
Pharaoh just makes their work harder.
But when Yahweh visits in judgment, the Egyptians will cry out to their gods and no one will listen.
A cry that has never been heard before in Egypt, never will be heard again as loud.
Their gods will not hear them.
But Yahweh heard the cry of His people and He saved His people.
No one will growl, not one.
It says in verse seven, but not a dog shall growl.
Dogs were not domesticated in this day like we have domesticated dogs.
Dogs were scavengers, whatever they could eat, they would eat.
You remember when Jezebel died, Wicked Queen Jezebel?
What was there to eat her?
Dogs, growling dogs.
There will be no one dead in Gosha.
There will be none of God's people dead because of the lamb has been shed for them.
The lamb, the perfect spotless lamb has died for them and in their place.
There will be no dogs eating any dead bodies there.
God is saving his people and he's sovereign over that.
But what really, once you see this, you can't unsee it in chapter 11, is God is saving his bride.
You say, I don't see that.
Verse one, the Lord said to Moses, he had one plague more I'll bring upon Pharaoh and upon Egypt.
Afterward, he will let you go from here.
When he lets you go, he will drive you away completely.
That verse there, word he will drive you out completely.
In Hebrew, there's a lot of debate whether that should actually be translated as he will drive you out like a slave wife.
Slave wife.
Well, you think real quickly about the book of Genesis.
Is there a slave wife that's ever driven away?
Think about Abraham with Haggar and Ishmael.
Sarah cries to Abraham in fear of the inheritance that Isaac and her to have that Isaac will have mainly as son of promise cries to Abraham to make the slave wife flee that Haggar would have to flee and Abraham does that.
It lets you drive you in verse three, speak to the hearing of the people, ask the neighbor, every woman of her neighbor for silver and gold jewelry.
The people had favor and they had that.
In Genesis, you can write these down and read them later.
Genesis chapter 12 and Genesis chapter 20.
There's a pattern in the book of Genesis.
And the pattern is that a wife would be attacked.
A wife would be taken and then plagues would come on those who attacked the wife.
And then the people who had the wife, the plagues come upon would send a bridegift away with the bride.
In chapter 12, Abraham and Sarah go into Egypt.
And the Pharaoh of that time captures Pharaoh because he thinks that she's good looking.
And Abraham lied and said, that's his sister.
Well, the plagues come upon Egypt and Pharaoh gets word from the Lord.
That's not his sister.
That's his wife.
So he repents and he sends a bride price with Sarah.
It's servants in gold and silver.
In chapter 20, Abraham goes into the land of Graz, I believe.
King Abimelech and Abimelech there, same thing.
Sarah's a good looking woman.
He takes her from Abraham.
So that's my sister.
Same lie.
But God does the same thing.
He sends plagues against King Abimelech and King Abimelech gets word.
Wait a minute.
You said this was your poor Abraham.
Just didn't learn.
Did he have to be kind of righteous?
A lot of sin there.
But plagues come.
God sends plagues and Abimelech sends gold and silver back to Abraham as a bride price for his bride for Sarah.
What's happening in Egypt?
Same pattern.
God's people are in Egypt.
He is bride.
These are my people.
This is my bride.
And he sends these plagues upon the one who has taken them.
That is the Pharaoh.
And he is going to send them out.
Pharaoh's going to send them out with gold and silver.
And see the same thing is true.
God has elected a people.
He has chosen a people in this world.
And we are enslaved by the fear of death, but he has sent plagues.
The Bible says he cursed this world.
for our sake in Genesis.
He sends plagues on this world.
One of the reasons we may know is something's wrong with this world.
Something's wrong between the creature and the creator.
But yet he sent his son that he might bear that curse.
The Bible says he who knew no sin became sin.
It's a curse for anyone to hang on a tree.
And he hung on a tree for us.
And what did they put on Christ when he was on the cross?
A crown of thorns symbolizing that curse that he took on the cross.
right?
Of course, we get to have all the gold and all everything that's in Christ is ours because he died for us.
Let's go to Lord and Father.
Help us to trust in your decreed will.
Help us to have full assurance in your wisdom.
You're working in mysterious way.
Father, we know that's where we find the assurance of our salvation.
That's our only hope for any of our friends or family who don't know you is that you would break into their lives, that you would take their heart of stone and turn it to a heart of flesh.
We beg that you would do that.
We know that faith comes through hearing and the hearing of word of God.
So Father, give us courage, give us wisdom in speaking your word to our friends and to our family so that we may see them come to faith by your miracle of regeneration.
Father, thank you for this church.
Thank you for the people who love to hear your word and who live to obey it.
Help us be a people who glorify you, who in a world of people who claim that personal autonomy is the supreme ethic.
Help us to say yes, personal autonomy is important, but the supreme ethic is the glory of God in Christ Jesus.
Help us to be courageous in this way.
We ask it in Christ's name.
Amen.
Thank you for listening to this sermon from Harvest Baptist Church.
For more information about the church, please visit our website HarvestBC.Church.
If you would like to contact us, please email us at contact.harvestbc.gmail.com or you can call us at 706-780-2211.
If you are looking for a church home or visiting the North Georgia area, we would love for you to join us on a Sunday morning.
at 9.30 in the fellowship hall for breakfast and Sunday school and then at 11 a.m. for our Lord's Day worship service.
We hope that you have a great week.
God bless.